[MUSIC]
>> Ben: September 9th,
2007 at 6:30 in the morning is
a moment that kind of changed my life.
I'm gonna get a little
bit cheesy on you here.
That's actually my birthday,
September 9th.
And somehow my wife had
managed to purchase for
me the first generation
iPhone without me knowing.
Somehow, she got the credentials
to my iTunes account and
activated this phone probably
at about two in the morning.
She set the alarm for 7:30 AM,
snuck back into our room and
put the thing right next to my head
on my little night stand there.
And I'm, the whole time,
clueless probably snoring.
And she snuck around the bed, climbed in.
Laid there for about ten minutes and
realized she wasn't gonna
able to sleep until 7:30.
She hopped back up,
went back around, changed to 6:30.
All this happening while
I'm still sleeping.
6:30 in the morning boom,
my alarm goes off.
And it's the original
you know that [SOUND].
You know that, all right,
you've heard that a million times.
And I have this moment where I
can see this in my mind's eye.
I'm laying sort of horizontally,
obviously, with my head on my pillow.
I happen to have my head tilted
right towards this iPhone and
I can see this glow.
And I hear that sound, and
I'd heard that sound on commercials and
other things but I'd never owned
an iPhone up to this point.
And it's probably been since that day
that I've been walking around with
an iPhone in my pocket.
Almost immediately, this kinda changed my
perspective on the Internet, on the web.
And you guys remember Steve standing there
with, I think, the New York Times or
some popular newspaper.
And he's kinda showing
us double tap zoomed in.
Swipe to the left, or the right, and
we get to see the article next,
double tap again zoom out.
And that experience was one that
he said the Internet in your hand,
the internet in your pocket and it really
has kind of changed our perspective on
what's happening in our role as
web designers and developers.
How many of you guys have
a smartphone of some kind?
Okay, most people.
Those of you who have a smartphone,
how many of you also have a laptop or
a desktop computer?
And those of you have both of those
how many of you also have a tablet of
some kind?
Right, it's crazy isn't it?
Look at this, 52% percent of laptop
owners also own a smartphone.
This is in the US.
31% of smartphone owners also
own a tablet.
23% of laptop owners also own a tablet,
and 13% in the US own all three.
The past five years have
completely changed our industry.
We've sort of been faced with coming
to the realization that the web is not
fixed width.
And so
we're gonna spend the rest of today,
talking about ways that we can approach,
sort of addressing this truth, okay.
Before we do that,
a little bit of housekeeping for you.
My name is Ben, as Mark said
bencallahan on Twitter and on app.net.
And you can check out my company,
it's called Sparkbox, seesparkbox.com.
We're a small shop,
there's only 10 of us, 10 or 11 of us.
And we're always hiring good people.
We've only been around for
a few years, actually.
And we've staked our
reputation on the idea
that websites need to work at
a lot of different resolutions.
I also was a founder of a workshop
series called Build Responsively,
it's just been going on this
year we're planning 2013 now.
Just kind of an opportunity for
us to get out and
start some conversations about
how this stuff should be done.
Opportunity to meet some really smart
people in some really cool cities.
And it's something that I've
really enjoyed this year.
And Marc mentioned I
really do enjoy education.
I hope that as we spend this day together
you don't hear me speaking down to you
in any way.
I really am just here to
facilitate a conversation.
I've got a lot of ideas and
I'm very opinionated and
I'll share all that with you.
But I'm really looking for you guys to
jump in share some of your experiences and
let's figure out there are some things
we can all learn from all right.
I enjoy a good brew on occasion and so
I don't know if you guys got the email,
I tried to send something out to everybody
before but if anyone is interested.
Maybe at lunch time we can talk and
see who's interested in having a beer or
something after.
I've distributed this little beer
icon throughout the presentation and
what that really means is that I probably
have a whole lot more to say about
that topic and I would love to
discuss it with you over a pint.
So if you see the icon really I can
probably put that on every slide but
I've kind of picked out some key areas
where I have a lot more thoughts and
just probably don't have time to
squeeze all that into a single day.
Yeah, so we'll try to figure out a time,
maybe this evening.
If you can't make it, no worries.
But yeah, we'll talk.
Speak up, I already said this, but
I really am looking for
you guys to participate here.
From what I understand, it's the same
group that's attending each of these,
so you guys probably
already know each other.
So I'm the odd man out here.
So don't hesitate to jump in and
ask some questions, and
contribute some of your ideas.
Also, in that email,
I mentioned this repository.
If you haven't had a chance
to pull those files down,
we are gonna be walking through some code.
I'm not going to get through all
the stuff that's in that repository.
There's a ton.
There's 14 or 15 different directories in
there with lots of different examples and
some cool stuff.
So there's also a readme file in
that in that repository that has got
loads of links, resources on this stuff.
I haven't provided
the slides ahead of time.
I will put them up for you afterwards.
But what I'd like to do is see where
the conversation goes and then go back and
make sure that the slides are accurately
representing what we actually discussed.
But the readme in that repo
has a ton of information and
all the links in here
are also in that repository.
So don't feel like you need to jot
all that down or type everything.
You can get to that info at any time.
This is what I have.
I'm going to try to get through
all of this stuff today, okay.
I've actually got more than this in my
presentation and so I'm pretty flexible.
If there's something that you don't see me
covering that you want really want to get
to, make sure you bring it up.
Try to hit me at lunch time or
something and mention it so
that we can try to work
it in the afternoon.
But we're gonna start with this 101,
the idea of just bringing everybody up
to speed with Responsive and what are
the three core techniques, what are some
other considerations we should be thinking
about as we do this kind of work.
We're gonna talk about process, and
I know that a lot of you guys maybe are in
the code regularly, but I think that
any time I talk about Responsive I
try to also talk about process.
Because these techniques,
they're sort of interruptive,
they're disruptive with
with the way that we work.
And for a long time I think we've been
trying to just squeeze it into our
existing process and there's a lot
of things that need to change.
So we're gonna cover some of that stuff.
We're gonna talk about
ways to apply styles,
because there's a lot of
different ways to do this.
And we'll get into some details on
ways that you can link to styles,
and how you can write media queries and
those things.
We're gonna talk about retrofitting.
Not everybody gets to start
over with every project.
And so, how are there other ways
that we can use some of these
responsive techniques on
more legacy type sites?
JavaScript to the rescue.
We're gonna talk about some really
incredibly useful poly fills and
wrappers for HTML 5 API stuff
that's gonna be really cool.
There's a ton of stuff.
I could spend the whole day just on that.
So I hand-picked a few of these
that I think are most critical.
Lessons learned, some stuff that I've
learned just from doing this for a couple
years now and then we're going talk about
what I think is next and responsive.
And I guess with that we will jump
right in any anything immediately,
you guys are seeing that I'm not
going to cover that you wanna get to?